CHAPTER LIV.

SPRINGING A MINE.

REFRESHED by sleep, Mr. Bucket rises betimes in the morning, and
prepares for a field-day. Smartened up by the aid of a clean shirt and a
wet hair-brush, with which instrument, on occasions of ceremony, he
lubricates such thin locks as remain to him after his life of severe study,
Mr. Bucket lays in a breakfast of two mutton chops as a foundation to
work upon, together with tea, eggs, toast and marmalade, on a corre-
sponding scale. Having much enjoyed these strengthening matters,
and having held subtle conference with his familiar demon, he confi-
dentially instructs Mercury "just to mention quietly to Sir Leicester
Dedlock, Baronet, that whenever he's ready for me, I'm ready for him."
A gracious message being returned, that Sir Leicester will expedite his
dressing and join Mr. Bucket in the library within ten minutes, Mr. Bucket
repairs to that apartment; and stands before the fire, with his finger on
his chin, looking at the blazing coals.

Thoughtful Mr. Bucket is; as a man may be, with weighty work to do;
but composed, sure, confident. From the expression of his face, he might
be a famous whist-player for a large stake — say a hundred guineas
certain - with the game in his hand, but with a high reputation involved
in his playing his hand out to the last card, in a masterly way. Not in
the least anxious or disturbed is Mr. Bucket, when Sir Leicester appears;
but he eyes the baronet aside as he comes slowly to his easy chair, with
that observant gravity of yesterday, in which there might have been
yesterday, but for the audacity of the idea, a touch of compassion.

"I am sorry to have kept you waiting, officer, but I am rather later
than my usual hour this morning. I am not well. The agitation, and
the indignation from which I have recently suffered, have been too much
for me. I am subject to - gout;" Sir Leicester was going to say
indisposition, and would have said it to anybody else, but Mr. Bucket
palpably knows all about it; "and recent circumstances have brought
it on."

As he takes his seat with some difficulty, and with an air of pain,
Mr. Bucket draws a little nearer, standing with one of his large hands on
the library table.

"I am not aware, officer," Sir Leicester observes, raising his eyes to his
face, "whether you wish us to be alone; but that is entirely as you please.
If you do, well and good. If not, Miss Dedlock would be interested---"

"Why, Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet," returns Mr. Bucket, with his
head persuasively on one side, and his forefinger pendant at one ear like
an ear-ring, "we can't be too private, just at present. You will presently
see that we can't be too private. A lady, under any circumstances, and
especially in Miss Dedlock's elevated station of society, can't but be
agreeable to me; but speaking without a view to myself, I will take the
liberty of assuring you that I know we can't be too private."

L L
