/* "my" in my knowledge on line 49 and "me" in surprise me on line 52 are both italicized. */

514 BLEAK HOUSE.

"That is enough."

"So much so, Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet," Mr. Bucket resumes,
"that I was on the point of asking your permission to turn the key in
the door."

"By all means." Mr. Bucket skilfully and softly takes that precaution;
stooping on his knee for a moment, from mere force of habit, so to
adjust the key in the lock as that no one shall peep in from the outer-
side.

"Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet, I mentioned yesterday evening, that
I wanted but a very little to complete this case. I have now completed
it, and collected proof against the person who did this crime."

"Against the soldier?"

"No, Sir Leicester Dedlock; not the soldier."
Sir Leicester looks astounded, and inquires, "Is the man in custody?"
Mr. Bucket tells him, after a pause, "It was a woman."
Sir Leicester leans back in his chair, and breathlessly ejaculates,
"Good Heaven!"

"Now, Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet," Mr. Bucket begins, standing
over him with one hand spread out on the library table, and the forefinger
of the other in impressive use, "it's my duty to prepare you for a train of
circumstances that may, and I go so far as to say that will, give you a
shock. But Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet, you are a gentleman; and I
know what a gentleman is, and what a gentleman is capable of. A
gentleman can bear a shock, when it must come, boldly and steadily.
A gentleman can make up his mind to stand up against almost any blow.
Why, take yourself, Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet. If there's a blow to
be inflicted on you, you naturally think of your family. You ask yourself,
how would all them ancestors of yours, away to Julius Cæsar—not to go
beyond him at present—have borne that blow; you remember scores of
them that would have borne it well; and you bear it well on their accounts,
and to maintain the family credit. That's the way you argue, and that's
the way you act, Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet."

Sir Leicester, leaning back in his chair, and grasping the elbows, sits
looking at him with a stony face.

"Now, Sir Leicester Dedlock," proceeds Mr. Bucket, "thus preparing
you, let me beg of you not to trouble your mind, for a moment, as to any-
thing having come to my knowledge. I know so much about so many
characters, high and low, that a piece of information more or less, don't
signify a straw. I don't suppose there's a move on the board that would
surprise me; and as to this or that move having taken place, why my
knowing it is no odds at all; any possible move whatever (provided
it's in a wrong direction) being a probable move according to my expe-
rience. Therefore what I say to you, Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet, is,
don't you go and let yourself be put out of the way, because of my
knowing anything of your family affairs."

"I thank you for your preparation," returns Sir Leicester, after a
silence, without moving hand, foot, or feature; "which I hope is not
necessary, though I give it credit for being well intended. Be so good
as to go on. Also;" Sir Leicester seems to shrink in the shadow of his
figure; "also, to take a seat, if you have no objection."

None at all. Mr. Bucket brings a chair, and diminishes his shadow.
