515

BLEAK HOUSE.
"Now, Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet, with this short preface, I come
to the point. Lady Dedlock
Sir Leicester raises himself in his seat, and stares at him fiercely.
Mlr. Bucket brings the finger into play as an emollient.
"Lady Dedlock, you see, she's universally admired. That's what her
Ladyship is; she's universally admired," says Mr. Bucket.
"I would greatly prefer, officer," Sir Leicester returns, stiffly,"my
Lady's name being entirely omitted from this discussion.
"So would I, Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet, but—it's impossible.?
"Impossible ?
Mlr. Bucket shakes his relentless head.
"Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet, it's altogether impossible. What I
have got to say, is about her Ladyship. She is the pivot it all turns on.
"Officer, retorts Sir Leicester, with a fiery eye, and a guivering lip,
"you know your duty. Do your duty; but be careful not to overstep it.
I would not suffer it. I would not endure it. You bring my Lady's
name into this communication, upon your responsibility—upon your
responsibility. My Lady's name is not a name for common persons to
triffe with!
"Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet, I say what I must say; and no
more.
"I hope it may prove so. Very well. Go on. Go on, sirl
Glancing at the angry eyes which now avoid him, and at the angry
figure trembling from head to foot, yet striving to be still, Mr. Bucket
feels his way with his forefinger, and in a low voice proceeds.
Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet, it becomes my duty to tell you that the
deceased Mr. Tulkinghorn long entertained mistrusts and suspicions of
Lady Dedlock.
"If he had dared to breathe them to me, sir—which he never did—I
would have killed him myself P exclaims Sir Leicester, striking his hand
upon the table. But, in the very heat and fury of the act, he stops, fixed
by the knowing eyes of Mr. Bucket, whose forefinger is slowly going, and
who, with mingled confidence and patience, shakes his head.
"Sir Leicester Dedlock, the deceased Mr. Tulkinghorn was deep and
close; and what he fully had in his mind in the very beginning, I can't
quite take upon myself to say. But I know from his lips, that he long
ago suspected Lady Dedlock of having discovered, through the sight of
some handwriting—in this very house, and when you yourself, Sir Leicester
Dedlock, were present—the existence, in great poverty, of a certain person,
who had been her lover before you courted her, and who ought to have been
her husband;" Mr. Bucket stops, and deliberately repeats, "ought to have
been her husband; not a doubt about it. I know from his lips, that when
that person soon afterwards died, he suspected Lady Dedlock of visiting his
wretched lodging, and his wretcheder grave, alone and in secret. I
know from my own inquiries, and through my eyes and ears, that
Lady Dedlock did make such visit, in the dress of her own maid; for the
deceased Mr. Tulkinghorn employed me to reckon up her Ladyship—if
youll excuse my making use of the term we commonly employ—and I
reckoned her up, so far, completely. I confronted the maid, in the
chambers in Lincoln's Inn Fields, with a witness who had been
Lady Dedlock's guide; and there couldn't be the shadow of a doubt
IL 2