BLEAK HOUSE.
516
that she had worn the young woman's dress, unknown to her. &
Leicester Dedlock, Baronet, I did endeavour to pave the way a little
towards these unpleasant disclosures, yesterday, by saying that very strange
things happened even in high families sometimes. All this, and more her
happened in your own family, and to and through your own Lady. It's me
belief that the deceased Mr. Tulkinghorn followed up these inquiried to
the hour of his death; and that he and Lady Dedlock even had bad blocd
between them upon the matter, that very night. Now, only you put thes
to Lady Dedlock, Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet; and ask her Ladyshin
whether, even after he had left here, she didn't go down to his champera
with the intention of saying something further to him, dressed in a loose
black mantle with a deep fringe to it.
Sir Leicester sits like a statue, gazing at the cruel finger that is probing
the life-blood of his heart.
"You put that to her Ladyship, Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet, from
me, Inspector Bucket of the Detective. And if her Ladyship makes any
difficulty about admitting of it, you tell her that if's no use; that
Inspector Bucket knows it, and knows that she passed the soldier as you
called him (though he's not in the army now), and knows that she knows
she passed him, on the staircase. Now, Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet.
why do I relate all this 3
Sir Leicester, who has covered his face with his hands, uttering a single
groan, requests him to pause for a moment. By and by, he takes his
hands away; and so preserves his dignity and outward calmness, though
there is no more color in his face than in his white hair, that Mr. Bucket
is a little awed by him. Something frozen and fixed is upon his manner,
over and above its usual shell of haughtiness; and Mr. Bucket soon
detects an unusual slowness in his speech, with now and then a curious
trouble in beginning, which occasions him to utter inarticulate sounds.
With such sounds, he now breaks silence; soon, however, controlling
himself to say, that he does not comprehend why a gentleman so faithful
and zealous as the late Mr. Tulkinghorn should have communicated to him
nothing of this painful, this distressing, this unlooked-for, this over-
whelming, this incredible intelligence.
"Again, Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet," returns Mr. Bucket, "put it
to her Ladyship to clear that up. Put it to her Ladyship, if you think
right, from Inspector Bucket of the Detective. Youll find, or Im
much mistaken, that the deceased Mr. Tulkinghorn had the intention of
communicating the whole to you, as soon as he considered it ripe; and
further, that he had given her Ladyship so to understand. Why, he
might have been going to reveal it on the very morning when I examined
the body ! You don't know what Im going to say and do, five minutes
from this present time, Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet; and supposing l
was to be picked off now, you might wonder why Ihadn't done it, dont
you seet
True. Sir Leicester, avoiding, with some trouble, those obtrusive
sounds, says, "True.? At this juncture, a considerable noise of voices is
heard in the hall. Mr. Bucket, after listening, goes to the library-door,
softly unlocks and opens it, and listens again. Then he draws in his
head, and whispers, hurriedly, but composedly, "Sir Leicester Dedlock,
Baronet, this unfortunate family affair has taken air, as I expected to