517
BLEAK HOUSE.
The
might; the deceased Mr. Tulkinghorn being cut down so sudden.
with
chance to hush it, is to let in these people now in a wrangle
your footmen. Would you mind sitting quiet—on the family account
while I reckon 'em up ? And would you just throw in a nod, when I
seem to ask you for it I
Sir Leicester indistinctly answers, "Officer. The best you can, the
best you can 1 and Mr. Bucket, with a nod and a sagacious crook of the
forefinger, slips down into the hall, where the voices quickly die away.
He is not long in returning, a few paces ahead of Mercury, and a brother
deity also powdered and in peach-blossom smalls, who bear between
them a chair in which is an incapable old man. Another man and two
women come behind. Directing the pitching of the chair, in an affable
and easy manner, Mr. Bucket dismisses the Mercuries, and locks the door
again. Sir Leicester looks on at this invasion of the sacred precincts
with an icy starc.
"Now, perhaps you may know me, ladies and gentlemen, says Mr.
"I am Inspector Bucket of the
Bucket, in a confidential voice.
Detective, I am; and this,producing the tip of his convenient little staff
from his breast-pocket, "is my authority. Now, you wanted to see Sir
Leicester Dedlock, Baronet. Well! You do see him; and, mind you,
it aint every one as is admitted to that honor. Your name, old gentleman,
is Smallweed; that's what your name is; I know it well.
*Well, and you never heard any harm of it 1' cries Mr. Smallweed in
a shrill loud voice.
"You don't happen to know why they killed the pig, do
you?? retorts Mr. Bucket, with a stedfast look, but without loss of
temper.
No!
"Why, they killed him," says Mr. Bucket, "on account of his having
so much cheek. Dont you get into the same position, because it isn't
worthy of you. You aint in the habit of conversing with a deaf person,
are you
"Yes," snarls Mr. Smallweed, "my wife's deaf
"That accounts for your pitching your voice so high. But as she
ain't here, just pitch it an octave or two lower, will you, and Ill not
only be obliged to you, but if'll do you more credit, says Mr. Bucket.
"This other gentleman is in the preaching line, I think I
"Name of Chadband, Mr. Smallweed puts in, speaking henceforth in
a much lower key.
"Once had a friend and hrother serjeant of the same name, says Mr.
Bucket, offering his hand, "and consequently feel a liking for it. Mrs.
Chadband, no doubt?
"And Mrs. Snagsby," Mr. Smallweed introduces.
"Husband a law stationer, and a friend of my own, says Mr. Bucket.
"Love him like a brother!—Now, what's up ?
"Do you mean what business have we come upon ?" Mr. Smallweed
asks, a little dashed by the suddenness of this turn.
"Ah! You know what I mean. Let us hear what if's all about in
Presence of Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet. Come.
Mr. Smallweed, beckoning Mr. Chadband, takes a moment's counsel
Mr. Chadband, expressing a considerable
with him in a whisper.