BLEAK HOUSE.
518
amount of oil from the pores of his forchead and the palms of his
hands, says aloud, "Yes. You first 1r and retires to his former place
"I was the client and friend of Mr. Tulkinghorn," pipes Frandfather
Smallweed, then; "I did business with him. I was useful to him, and
he was useful to me. Krook, dead and gone, was my brother in-law
He was own brother to a brimstone magpie—leastways Mrs. Smallweed
I come in to Krook's property. I examined all his papers and all his
effects. They was all dug out under my eyes. There was a bundle of
letters belonging to a dead and gone lodger, as was hid away at the back
of a shelf in the side of Lady Jane's bed—his cat's bed. He hid an
manner of things away, everywheres. Mr. Tulkinghorn wanted 'em and
got'em, but I looked em over first. Im a man of business, and I
took a squint at em. They was letters from the lodger's sweetheart.
and she signed Honoria. Dear me, thats not a common name, Honoria.
is it ? There's no lady in this house that signs Honoria, is there? O no.
I don't think so ! Ono, I don't think so ! And not in the same hand,
perhaps? Ono, I don't think so1
Here Mr. Smallweed, seized with a fit of coughing in the midst of his
triumph, breaks off to ejaculate "0 dear me ! O Lord! Im shaken all to
pieces!
"Now, when you're ready, says Mr. Bucket, after awaiting his
recovery, "to come to anything that concerns Sir Leicester Dedlock,
Baronet, here the gentleman sits, you know
cries Grandfather Smallweed.
"Haven't I come to it, Mr. Bucket 3r
"Isn't the gentleman concerned yet ? Not with Captain Hawdon and
his ever affectionate Honoria, and their child into the bargain? Come,
then, I want to know where those letters are. That concerns me, if it
don't concern Sir Leicester Dedlock. I will know where they are. I
wont have 'em disappear so quietly. I handed em over to my friend
and solicitor, Mr. Tulkinghorn; not to anybody else.
*Why he paid you for them, you know, and handsome too, says
Mr. Bucket.
"I don't care for that. I want to know who's got'em. And I tell
you what we want—what we all here want, Mr. Bucket. We want more
pains-taking and search-making into this murder. We know where the
interest and the motive was, and you have not done enough. If George
the vagabond dragoon had any hand in it, he was only an accomplice, and
was set on. You know what I mean as well as any man.
"Now I tell you what, says Mr. Bucket, instantaneously altering
his manner, coming close to him, and communicating an extraordinary
fascination to the forefinger, "I am damned if I am a going to have my
case spoilt, or interfered with, or anticipated by so much as half a second
of time, by any human being in creation. You want more pains-taking
and search-making ? You do ? Do you see this hand, and do you think
that I don't know the right time to stretch it out, and put it on the arm
that fired that shot ?
Such is the dread power of the man, and so terribly evident it is that
he makes no idle boast, that Mr. Smallweed begins to apologise.
Mr. Bucket, dismissing his sudden anger, checks him.
"The advice I give you, is, don't you trouble your head about the
murder. That's my affair. You keep half an eye on the newspapers;
ify